Update topic/graph-matching/bigraph matching (#8)
OI-wiki/i18n: docs/topic/graph-matching/bigraph-match.md

author: accelsao

# Maximum Bipartite Matching

A **matching** of a graph is a sub set of edges such that no two edges share a vertex. A **maximum matching** of a graph is a matching with the maximum number of edges(matching as many vertices as possible).  

For the convenience of description, we partition the graph into two disjoint sets - left and right. All matching edges connects to both left and right sets. One common example of bipartite graph matching is matching a group of men and women.

Assume the graph has $n$ vertices and $m$ edges.

## Augmenting Path Algorithm

Because the length of augmenting path is odd, and the starting vertex of the path is either on the left or right, we first consider finding the augmenting path from the unmatched vertices on the left.

> Please note that because of the [alternating path](./augment.md), the odd-numbered edges on the augmenting path are all unmatched edges, and the even-numbered edges are all matched edges. So left-to-right are unmatched edges, and right-to-left are matched edges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that because of the [alternating path](./augment.md), the odd-numbered edges on the augmenting path are all unmatched edges, and the even-numbered edges are all matched edges. So left-to-right edges are all unmatched, and right-to-left edges are all matched.
```

> So we define the **direction** for the bipartite graph, and the problem is converted to finding a directed path starting from a given vertex to a certain unmatched vertex in the directed graph, which is actually equivalent to whether the given starting vertex $s$ can reach the ending vertex $t$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So we define the **direction** for the bipartite graph, and the problem is converted to finding a directed path starting from a given vertex to an unmatched vertex in a directed graph, which is actually equivalent to whether the given starting vertex $s$ can reach the ending vertex $t$.
```
certain 感觉有点不合适，下同。

This means that we can just do the DFS traversal from the starting vertex until a certain unmatched vertex is found. The time complexity for this step is $O(m)$ .

> When the augmenting path has not been found. we call the path we create the **alternating tree**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the augmenting path has not been found, the path formed was called an **alternating tree**.
```
建议多用被动语态

> > **alternating tree**: a tree whose root is an unmatched vertex. All root-to-leaf paths in an alternating tree are alternating paths with respect to M.  If we can add an unmatched vertex, other than the root, to an alternating tree, we have found an augmenting path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **alternating tree**: a tree whose root is an unmatched vertex. All root-to-leaf paths in an alternating tree are alternating paths with respect to $M$.  If we can add an unmatched vertex other than the root vertex to an alternating tree, we have found an augmenting path.
```
这里 M 有点突然鸭 :thinking:

Author: 参考了这个[TAU match](https://www.cs.tau.ac.il/~zwick/grad-algo-0910/match.pdf) 的链接， 忘记在前面写M是a set of matching 了..现在加上 :grimacing:
> Definition 2.1 (Alternating paths and cycles) Let G = (V, E) be a graph and let M be a
matching in M. A path P is said to be an alternating path with respect to M if and only if among
every two consecutive edges along the path, exactly one belongs to M. An alternating cycle C is
defined similarly.

Because we want to enumerate $n$ points, the overall time complexity is $O(nm)$ .

### Code

```cpp
struct augment_path {
  vector<vector<int> > g;
  vector<int> pa;  // pair
  vector<int> pb;
  vector<int> vis;  // visit

>   int n, m;         // number of vertices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  int n, m;         // number of vertices and edges
```
原文有点问题

};
```

## Dinic's algorithm

Bipartite graph maximum matching can be converted into the flow network model. The **Dinic's algorithm** can also be used to compute the maximum flow in a network.

> Connect all vertices on the left to the source vertex, and all points on the right to the sink vertex. The capacity is $1$ . Each original edge is connected from left to right, and the capacity is also $1$ . The maximum flow is the maximum match, which can be found in $O(\sqrt{n}m)$ .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connect all vertices on the left to the source vertex, and all points on the right to the sink vertex. All of these edges have a capacity of $1$. Each original edge is connected from left to right with capacity $1$ as well . The maximum flow is the maximum match, which can be found in $O(\sqrt{n}m)$ .
```

Dinic's algorithm contains two parts. The first part uses BFS to construct network flow in $O(m)$ time complexity; The second part performs DFS for augmentation in $O(nm)$ time complexity.

But because the capacity is $1$ , the actual time complexity is $O(m)$ .

> Next, for the first $O(\sqrt{n})$ rounds, the time complexity is $O(\sqrt{n}m)$ . After $O(\sqrt{n})$ rounds, the length of each augmenting path is at least $\sqrt{n}$ , and such path does not exceed $\sqrt{n}$ .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, for the first $O(\sqrt{n})$ rounds, the time complexity is $O(\sqrt{n}m)$ . After $O(\sqrt{n})$ rounds, the length of each augmenting path is at least $\sqrt{n}$ , and the number of such path does not exceed $\sqrt{n}$ .
```

};
```

## Dinic's algorithm

> Bipartite graph maximum matching can be converted into the flow network model. And the **Dinic's algorithm** is used to compute the maximum flow in a flow network.

Reviewer: network flow 为固定表述
另外：
```suggestion
Bipartite graph maximum matching can be converted into the flow network model. The **Dinic's algorithm** can also be used to compute the maximum flow in a network.
```

Dinic's algorithm contains two parts. The first part uses BFS to construct network flow in $O(m)$ time complexity; The second part performs DFS for augmentation in $O(nm)$ time complexity.

But because the capacity is $1$ , the actual time complexity is $O(m)$ .

Next, for the first $O(\sqrt{n})$ rounds, the time complexity is $O(\sqrt{n}m)$ . After $O(\sqrt{n})$ rounds, the length of each augmenting path is at least $\sqrt{n}$ , and such path does not exceed $\sqrt{n}$ .

So it only needs to run $\sqrt{n}$ rounds. The overall time complexity is $O(\sqrt{n}m)$ .

### Code

TBC.

## Additional information

### Maximum independent set in bipartite graph

Choose the maximum vertices to satisfy the requirement that there are no connected edges between each other.

In bipartite graphs, the maximum independent set = $n$ - maximum matching.

### Minimum vertex cover in bipartite graph

Choose the minimum vertices to satisfy the requirement that at least one endpoint of each edge is selected. It is not difficult to find that the complement set is an independent set.

In bipartite graphs, the minimum vertex cover = $n$ - maximum independent set.

> ## Practice questions

Reviewer: 题目统一用 problem(s) 吧

> ??? note "[UOJ #78. Bipartite graph maximum matching(original link in Chinese)](https://uoj.ac/problem/78) "

Reviewer: original link in Chinese 在上一个 pr 中放在了超链接外面，建议统一

Reviewer: 🌚 emmm 虽然改了下面那一行但是这行还是没改呢（

>     Template question

Reviewer: 同上

    ```cpp
    #include <bits/stdc++.h>
    using namespace std;

    struct augment_path {
      vector< vector<int> > g;
      vector<int> pa; // pair
      vector<int> pb;
      vector<int> vis; // visited

>       int n, m; // number of vertices

Reviewer: 同上
